---
title: CNN 004
date: 2026-03-26T23:11:07.222+11:00
description: Convolutional Neural Networks 004
authors: me
tags:
  - CNN
---

## Logistic Regression as Neural Network

- if $y = 1$
  - $L = -\log(\hat{y})$
  - if $\hat{y} \to 1$, then $L \to 0$ (low loss)
  - if $\hat{y} \to 0$, then $L \to \infty$ (high loss)
- if $y = 0$
  - $L = -\log(1 - \hat{y})$
  - if $\hat{y} \to 0$, then $L \to 0$ (low loss)
  - if $\hat{y} \to 1$, then $L \to \infty$ (high loss)

## Gradient Descent

- it is an iterative approach for error correction in a machene learning model
- Find $w$ and $b$ that will minimize $GD(w, b)$ (requires Loss/Cost function)

1. Initialize $w$ and $b$
2. Perform Forward pass operation/calculations
3. Compute Loss/Cost function $L(a, y)$
4. Compute change in $w$ and $b$ (Take the partial derivative of the cost function with respect to Weights and bias $dw$ and $db$)
5. Update $w$ and $b$ ($w := w - \alpha dw$ and $b := b - \alpha db$)
6. Repeat from Step 2 with new values of $w$ and $b$ for 'n' number of iterations.

- $\alpha$ is the learning rate (hyperparameter) that controls how much we are adjusting the weights and bias of our model with respect to the loss gradient. It is a small positive value (e.g., 0.01, 0.001) that determines the step size at each iteration while moving toward a minimum of the loss function.

### Gradient Descent Types

- Batch Gradient Descent (BGD)
- **Stochastic Gradient Descent** (SGD)
- **Mini-batch Gradient Descent** (MBGD)

### Batch Gradient Descent (BGD)

1. Process each input sample and find the cost
2. Find the average cost oveer all input samples
3. Update $w$ and $b$ and repeat the steps for "n" epochs(iterations)

- Disadvantages:
  - It uses the complete dataset to calculate the gradients at every steps
  - Slow when training data is large
  - Difficult to find the learning rate
  - Difficult to ascertain the number of epochs(iterations)

### Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD)

> Due to the random nature, the algorithm is much less regular than BGD.

1. Process a random input sample and find the cost.
2. Update $w$ and $b$, and repeat the steps for "n" iterations on the training samples.

- Advantages:
  - Computes gradient based on single input sample, which is memory efficient.
  - Much faster compared to BGD.
  - Possible to train on large datasets.
  - Randomness is helpful to escape local minima.
- Disadvantages:
  - Might not reach the optimal value, but very close to it.
