---
title: TIM 002
date: 2026-02-23T14:30:08.263+11:00
description: Technology and Innovation Management 002
authors: me
tags:
  - tim
---

## Market Structure

| | Perfect Competition | Monopolistic Competition | Oligopoly | Monopoly |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Number of firms | Almost Infinite | Many | Few | One |
| Barriers to Entry | No barriers | No barriers / Low barriers | Some barriers | High barriers |
| Influence over Price | Price Taker | Limited | Some | Price Maker |
| Nature of Product | Homogeneous | Differentiated | Similar, Differentiated | No close substitutes |
| Examples | Common agricultural products | Fast-food restaurants | Auto Industry | Utilities | 

## Porter's 5 Competitive Forces

1. **Threat of New Entrants**: Profitable industries that yield high returns will attract new firms. New entrants eventually will decrease profitability for other firms in the industry.
2. **Threat of Substitutes**: A substitute product uses a different technology to try to solve the same economic need.
3. **Bargaining Power of Customers**: The market outputs. The ability of customers to put the firm under pressure, which also affects the customer's sensitivity to price changes.
4. **Bargaining Power of Suppliers**: The market inputs. Suppliers of raw materials, components, labor, and services (such as expertise) to the firm can be a source of power over the firm when there are few substitutes.
5. **Competitive rivalry**: For most industries the intensity of competitive rivalry is the major determinant of the competitiveness of the industry.

### Threat of New Entrants

> Barriers to entry ⬆️, Profits ⬆️

- How difficult it is for new business to enter an industry and compete with already established ones.
- Many competitors lead to lower average profits
- Threat of New Entrants:
  - Barriers to entry
  - Economies of scale
  - Brand loyalty
  - Capital requirements
  - Cumultative experience
  - Government policies
  - Access to distribution channels
  - Switching costs

### Threat of Substitute Products

- A substitute product or service is an alternative that serves the same purpose for the customers, from a different industry.
- For example,
  - Taxi vs. Uber
  - Train vs. Plane
  - Tea vs. Coffee vs. Soft Drinks
- Threat of Substitutes Products:
  - Number of substitute products available
  - Buyer propensity ot substitute
  - Relative price performance of substitute
  - Perceived level of product differentiation
  - Switching costs

### Bargaining Power of Customers and Suppliers

- Bargaining power of customers:
  - Number of customers
  - Size of each customer order
  - Differences between competitors
  - Price sensitivity
  - Buyer's ability to substitute
  - Buyer's information availability
  - Switching costs
- Bargaining power of suppliers:
  - Number of suppliers
  - Size of suppliers
  - Uniqueness of each supplier's product
  - Focal company's ability to substitute

### Rivalry among Existing Competitors

- The extent of competition within an industry
- Price wars
- Rivalry among existing competitors:
  - Number of competitors
  - Diversity of competitors
  - Industry concentration
  - Industry growth
  - Quality differences
  - Brand loyalty
  - Barriers to exit
  - Switching costs
- For example,
  - Woolworths vs. Coles
  - Apple vs. Samsung

## KANO Model

- Expected (Basic or Must-be) Attribute
  - car: a functioning brake is a must be quality
  - hotel: providing a clean room is a basic necessity
- One-Dimensional (Performance) Attribute
  - car: acceleration
  - hotel: waiting service at a hotel
- Attractive (Delight) Attribute
  - car: advanced parking sensor
  - hotel: providing free food
- Indifferent Attribute
  - car: the color of the car
  - hotel: highly polite speacking and very prompt responses not be necessary to satisfy customers
- Reverse Attribute
  - web: auto-playing videos/audio
  - venue: unnecessary security checks at the entrance of a venue

### Possible movement of Attributes' place

- As customer expectations change with the level or performance from competing products, attributes can move from **delighter** to **performance** need and then to **basic** need.